# Determining Requirements

Pizza Store Inc. requires a new software solution for its employees to use when entering pizza orders for customers. This page documents the gathering of requirements for the project.

The system will require the following inputs and outputs. All mentioned are must-haves for the the system to function as intended.

| Inputs                                                 | Outputs            |
| ------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------ |
| Customer details(name, postcode, house number, mobile) | Unique Customer Id |
| Type of each pizza                                     | Delivery Cost      |
| Various toppings for pizzas                            | VAT amount         |
| Distance in miles                                      | Total Cost         |
|                                                        | Invoice            |

## User Stories

- **As a PizzaStore user**, I want to be able to store customer data so that each invoice can be sent to the necessary customer as required.
- **As a PizzaStore user**, I want to enter customer details including name, house number, and postcode to create a unique customer ID for invoicing purposes.
- **As a PizzaStore user**, I want to be able to place an order for one or more pizzas of different types so that I can inform the kitchen of what is required without having to remember everything.
- **As a PizzaStore customer**, I want to be able to choose from a number of pizza bases including deep pan and thin crust.
- **As a PizzaStore customer**, I want to be able to add toppings to a pizza, as I may be ordering for multiple people.
- **As a PizzaStore customer**, I want to know the total cost of my order including pizza costs, delivery charge, and VAT, so I can make an informed decision before payment.
- **As a PizzaStore customer**, I want the application to generate an invoice displaying the following details: User ID, Customer ID, Details and price of each pizza, Delivery cost, VAT, Total Cost.
- **As a PizzaStore customer**, I want to know whether my order can be delivered or not, and if so, the price before payment.

## Functional Requirements

1. Customer Input

   - The system must allow the user to input the following customer details:
     - Name
     - House Number
     - Postcode

   - The system should not allow customer details to be altered after creation

2. Order Input

   - The system should allow the customer to order multiple pizzas at a time.
   - The system should allow the customer to select the type of pizza.

3. Pricing Calculation

   - The system must calculate the cost of each order, as well as all pizzas and each invoice related to that order, as well as VAT.
   - The system must calculate the delivery price, and indicate whether or not an order supports delivery.

4. Invoice Generation & Display

   - The system must generate an invoice that includes the following information:
     - User ID
     - Customer ID
     - Details and price of each pizza
     - Delivery cost
     - VAT
     - Total Cost

   - The invoice must be displayed on the screen in a clear and readable format.

## Non-Functional Requirements

1. Performance

   - The system should respond to user input in under 2 seconds for all non-trivial tasks. Judging from the initial functional requirements, all public commands in the service layer will respond in less than 1 second.

2. Extensibility

   - The system should separate the application into distinct layers. This will allow developers to easily extend the application with a different presentation layer at a later date.
   - The system should

3. Maintainability

   - The system should be easy to maintain, update and extend due to future changes to business processes.

4. Reliability

   - The system should be available during business hours with minimal downtime to ensure continuous invoice generation and delivery tracking.
