# Testing

Unit testing is important for software engineering for a number of reasons:

1. Guard against bugs: Unit tests should verify that your code works as expected. By integrating into the development workflow and testing automatically, developers can catch bugs early (ByteHide, 2023)[^1].
2. Protection from regression: When adding new features the use of unit tests allows for programmers to ensure pre-existing features still function as expected (Jpreese, 2022)[^2], helping to avoid an the entire class of regression defects.
3. Detect code smells: Using unit tests encourages developers to encapsulate code in a way that encourages adherence to the SOLID principles.

A unit test project has been built targeting the PizzaStore.Lib class library. These tests are designed to ensure the system adheres to the specificaction.

The use of unit tests themselves also help meet the non-functional requirements, specifically regarding maintainability. Testing the important parts of code allows engineers to ensure that new updates and modifications do not break existing code (Durga Prasad Acharya, 2022)[^3].

For my tests I am using the xunit testing framework library, a more modern library than NUnit or MSTest. XUnit uses `Fact` and `Theory` attributes to make methods discoverable by the test runner, intending to be a bit more simple than the older frameworks (Vinugayathri, 2019)[^4].

## What to test

The part of the system with the most business logic is the creation and processing of orders. By testing this class thorougly I can hopefully keep business critical bugs to a minimum as I build on top of it. The `Order` and `OrderPizza` classes have been designed to use factory methods to create new instances, this makes both classes more testable, as it is considered an antipattern to have complex logic in class constructors (pawar, 2024)[^5].

Currently the classes containing the majority of tests are:

- [OrderTests.cs](../tests/Lib.Tests/OrderTests.cs)
- [CustomerTests.cs](../tests/Lib.Tests/CustomerTests.cs)

These classes test both their respective objects, and the Service classes which invoke the EF Core methods to handle CRUD tasks at the database level. In future it may be beneficial to separate the service layer tests into their own classes, but that is not necessary currently.

One key library utilised in these tests is called [FluentAssertions](https://fluentassertions.com/). This provides a set of extension methods that allow devs to specify unit test assertions using more natural, descriptive language. For example, the following test is from `OrderTests.cs` which has been configured to fail:

```cs
[Theory]
[ClassData(typeof(OutOfRangeCustomerTestData))]
public void MarkAsForDeliveryShouldDoNothingWhenCustomerIsOutOfRange(Customer customer)
{
    // Arrange
    var service = new OrderService(_fixture.Context);
    var order = Order.CreateNew(customer, [], users.First());

    // Act
    order.MarkAsForDelivery();

    // Purposely set to true so that test fails
    order.IsDelivery = true;

    // Assert
    order.IsDelivery.Should().BeFalse("Customers who are out of range cannot have their orders delivered");
}
```

When the test fails, it will throw an exception with a message similar to the following:

```log
[Failed] Lib.Tests.OrderTests.MarkAsForDeliveryShouldDoNothingWhenCustomerIsOutOfRange
    Message:
        Expected order.IsDelivery to be false because Customers who are out of range cannot have their orders delivered, but found True.
    Stack Trace:
           at FluentAssertions.Execution.XUnit2TestFramework.Throw(String message)
           at FluentAssertions.Execution.TestFrameworkProvider.Throw(String message)...

==== Summary ====
Failed!  - Failed:    4, Passed:    0, Skipped:    0, Total:    1, Duration: 1s
```

Using descriptive messages like this makes dealing with failing tests far easier, and should also allow new developers to get up to speed with the test suite faster. Benefits are greatly reduced if tests start becoming too large and unwieldy, so it is recommended to keep unit tests as small and focused as possible. I tried to follow the following recommendations when writing these tests (Vladimir Khorikov, 2020, p.63)[^6]:

- Follow the Arrange, Act, Assert pattern. If a test has more than one of each section, it's a sign the test is responsible for too much.
- Don't use a naming policy that is too strict. Instead name tests in a manner that will allow non-programmers to understand the scenario.
- Resuse test fixture initialization code. This helps ensure tests remain decoupled from each other.

---
[^1]: ByteHide (2023). Unit Testing with C# and .NET (Full Guide) - ByteHide Blog. [online] ByteHide Blog. Available at: [https://www.bytehide.com/blog/unit-testing-csharp].
[^2]: Jpreese (2022). Best practices for writing unit tests - .NET. [online] Microsoft.com. Available at: [https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/testing/unit-testing-best-practices].
[^3]: Durga Prasad Acharya (2022). Unit Testing Explained: What It Is, Why It’s Important, and How to Get Started. [online] Geekflare. Available at: [https://geekflare.com/unit-testing-guide/].
[^4]: Vinugayathri (2019). Why Use xUnit For .NET - NUnit vs. XUnit vs. MSTest. [online] Clariontech.com. Available at: [https://www.clariontech.com/blog/why-should-you-use-xunit-a-unit-testing-framework-for-.net].
[^5]: pawar, amol (2024). Understanding Object Creation, Constructors, and Singleton Class in Java. [online] Medium. Available at: [https://blog.devgenius.io/understanding-object-creation-constructors-and-singleton-class-in-java-c055fe206a2b].
[^6]: Vladimir Khorikov (2020). Unit Testing Principles, Practices, and Patterns. Manning, p.63.
